{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Calibri;}}
\fs24
\b Performance and Server Requirements Report\b0\par
Project: AI_PPT_GENERATOR\par
Date: 2026-04-06\par
\par
\b 1. Executive Summary\b0\par
This project generates presentations by calling external APIs (OpenAI LLM, Pexels/Unsplash) and then builds PPTX files locally using python-pptx. As implemented, GPU is not used by the application code. Most latency is dominated by remote API response time and network latency. Local CPU work is limited to JSON processing, image download/decoding, and PPTX assembly.\par
\par
\b 2. What Runs on CPU vs GPU\b0\par
- CPU (local): FastAPI request handling, JSON parsing, image download/decoding, PPTX generation, database IO.\par
- GPU (local): Not used by code. If the LLM is external (OpenAI), inference happens remotely.\par
- External services: OpenAI LLM API, Pexels/Unsplash image search APIs.\par
\par
\b 3. Local End-to-End Benchmark Results (LLM + Image Search + PPTX Export)\b0\par
Environment: local sandbox with outbound network; OpenAI/Pexels/Unsplash keys configured.\par
Trials: 2 per slide count. Prompt: "quarterly performance" (fixed).\par
Export step includes image downloads from returned URLs.\par
\par
Slides | LLM med s | Img med s | Export med s | Total med s | Total s/slide\par
     4 |     1.584 |     1.210 |        1.972 |       4.767 |          1.192\par
     6 |     2.137 |     1.162 |        1.401 |       4.700 |          0.783\par
     8 |     2.250 |     1.113 |        2.629 |       5.991 |          0.749\par
\par
\b Notes on Variance\b0\par
LLM and image APIs are network-bound, so timings vary by provider latency and network conditions. Export time varies with image sizes and download speed.\par
\par
\b 4. Local Benchmark Results (PPTX Export Only)\b0\par
These results measure only PPTX assembly using python-pptx (text boxes only). They do NOT include LLM response time, image search/download time, or network latency.\par
\par
Slides | Median ms | Min ms | Max ms | Median ms/slide\par
     4 |    12.170 | 12.153 | 14.865 |         3.042\par
     6 |    14.778 | 13.497 | 16.619 |         2.463\par
     8 |    15.049 | 14.968 | 15.973 |         1.881\par
    10 |    18.132 | 17.072 | 21.506 |         1.813\par
    12 |    20.722 | 19.884 | 27.697 |         1.727\par
\par
\b 5. Server Requirements (Current Implementation)\b0\par
\b Software\b0\par
- Backend: Python 3.10+ with FastAPI, httpx, python-pptx.\par
- Frontend: Node.js 18+ (Vite/Vue).\par
- Database: SQLite by default (DATABASE_URL=sqlite:///./ppt_generator.db).\par
- External API keys: OPENAI_API_KEY, PEXELS_API_KEY, UNSPLASH_ACCESS_KEY.\par
- Outbound HTTPS access required.\par
\par
\b Hardware (Guidance)\b0\par
Because LLM and image generation are external, local CPU/RAM requirements are modest. Actual sizing depends on concurrent users and export volume.\par
- vCPU: 2-4 for low traffic (scale with concurrency)\par
- RAM: 4-8 GB for low traffic\par
- Disk: depends on number of presentations and cached media\par
- Network: reliable outbound HTTPS with low latency\par
\par
\b 6. CPU-Only Processing Details\b0\par
- CPU handles request routing, JSON serialization, image download and decoding, and PPTX packaging.\par
- CPU load increases with concurrency and number of images per slide.\par
- GPU is not required unless you add local inference.\par
\par
\b 7. Observability Checklist\b0\par
- Log LLM request latency (OpenAI)\par
- Log image search latency (Pexels/Unsplash)\par
- Log PPTX export time\par
- Monitor CPU, memory, and response codes\par
\par
\b 8. Notes\b0\par
This report reflects the current codebase where generation uses remote APIs. If you move inference on-prem or add GPU-accelerated steps, update this report with new benchmarks.\par
}
